We should celebrate, its a great move by your Prime Minister of India Narendra Modi which will help curb the black money.

We had seen Anna Hazare asking for Jan Lokpal,

We saw Arvind Kejriwal talking about India against corruption.

We had seen Baba Ramdev getting lathis on his Ass for asking corruption free state.

Importance Of This Decision,

1. Government will track every single note which is present in the form of Black Money in India.

2. Rising graph of Fake Currency will drop soon.

3. This decision will help us to tackle against corruption as government will always have its eye on your transaction.

4.Corruption will decrease. How?

Let’s suppose you want to have a transaction of 10 00,000 rs. If you do in 1000 denomination, you’ll need 100 notes. But if you do in 100 denomination, you’ll need 1000 notes.

Hence, you’ll need to go digital!



Indirectly, Terrorism will decrease too, as the terrorist funding will decrease.





Unknown sources of funding during elections will be limited.

To minimise the difficulties of citizens in the coming days, several steps are being taken.

1. Persons holding old notes of five hundred or one thousand rupees can deposit these notes in their bank or post office accounts from 10th November till close of banking hours on 30th December 2016 without any limit.

2. Thus you will have 50 days to deposit your notes and there is no need for panic.

3. Your money will remain yours. You need have no worry on this point.

4. After depositing your money in your account, you can draw it when you need it.

5. Keeping in mind the supply of new notes, in the first few days, there will be a limit of ten thousand rupees per day and twenty thousand rupees per week. This limit will be increased in the coming days.

6. Apart from depositing your notes in your bank account, another facility will also be there.

7. For your immediate needs, you can go to any bank, head post office or sub post office, show your identity proof like Aadhaar card, voter card, ration card, passport, PAN card or other approved proofs, and exchange your old five hundred or thousand rupee notes for new notes.

8. From 10th November till 24th November the limit for such exchange will be four thousand rupees. From 25th November till 30th December, the limit will be increased.

9. There may be some who, for some reason, are not able to deposit their old five hundred or thousand rupee notes by 30th December 2016.

10. They can go to specified offices of the Reserve Bank of India up to 31st March 2017 and deposit the notes after submitting a declaration form.

11. On 9th November and in some places on 10th November also, ATMs will not work. In the first few days, there will be a limit of two thousand rupees per day per card.

12. This will be raised to four thousand rupees later.

13. Five hundred and thousand rupee notes will not be legal tender from midnight. However for humanitarian reasons, to reduce hardship to citizens, some special arrangements have been made for the first 72 hours, that is till midnight on 11th November.

14. During this period, government hospitals will continue to accept five hundred and thousand rupee notes for payment.

15. This is for the benefit of those families whose members may be unwell.

16. Pharmacies in government hospitals will also accept these notes for buying medicines with doctors' prescription.

17. For 72 hours, till midnight on 11th November, railway ticket booking counters, ticket counters of government buses and airline ticket counters at airports will accept the old notes for purchase of tickets. This is for the benefit of those who may be travelling at this time.

18. For 72 hours, five hundred and thousand rupee notes will be accepted also at

• Petrol, diesel and CNG gas stations authorised by public sector oil companies

• Consumer co­operative stores authorised by State or Central Government

• Milk booths authorised by State governments

• Crematoria and burial grounds.

19. Arrangements will be made at international airports for arriving and departing passengers who have five hundred or thousand rupee notes of not more than five thousand rupees, to exchange them for new notes or other legal tender.

20. Foreign tourists will be able to exchange foreign currency or old notes of not more than Rs 5000 into legal tender.

21. One more thing I would like to mention, I want to stress that in this entire exercise, there is no restriction of any kind on non­cash payments by cheques, demand drafts, debit or credit cards and electronic fund transfer.

Black Money: India lost Rs 17 trillion in 4 decades to tax evasions

A Central Bank data shows that Indians have exported goods and services, worth over Rs 17 trillion over the last 44 years but have not remitted an equal amount in foreign exchange. An HT analysis of the Central Bank data showed that this might be the first estimate of how much the Indian economy might have suffered from the offshore accounts of tax evaders. This amount is estimated to be at least one-fourth of India’s current Gross Domestic Product(GDP). The amount which is much higher now when adjusted according to the US Dollar is speculated to have been sitting in certain tax havens.

The HT analysis of the RBI

Laveesh Bhandari, economist and co-author of a book on corruption, tells HT that it is quite difficult to have an estimation of the black money

The Supreme Court has led most of the campaigns against black money. In 2011, the SC had appointed a SIT team to access the black money, both at home and abroad. Following this, the SIT went seeking the Central Bank’s help with digging out of the suspected export deals. Although, initially it wasn’t clear as to what purpose the data would serve. In the past, the studies and research on untaxed, illegal wealth have been minimal and inconsistent, which the hurt the struggle against corruption that costs India about 1-2% of its entire GDP every year. Whereas, the newest RBI data exercise arrives very close to being definitive on fake exports at least.

Will the new Rs 2,000 note be embedded with NGC technology?

The Prime Minster of India, Narendra Modi on Tuesday announced that the Rs 500 and 1,000 notes will be invalid from the midnight of November 8th. This means the new Rs 500 and Rs 2,000 notes would be in circulation and as per the RBI the same would be out by November 10th.

There was a lot of buzz about what features in the Rs 2,000 note. Talk regarding the Rs 2,000 note being equipped with a Nano GPS chip was doing the rounds.

The RBI has not made any announcement as yet regarding the nano GPS chips being available in the Rs 2,000 note. However, there is a possibility of the same becoming a reality.

How does the NGC technology work?

The NGC technology embedded in the note will not need a power source and would act as a signal reflector.

The NGC is a safe option and cannot be tampered with If a signal is sent out from the satellite, the NGC reflects the signal back.

This will give the precise location coordinates including the serial number.

This would help in tracking and the same can be located if it is kept at 120 metres below ground level.

The satellite can track as well identify the exact amount of money stored in a particular location. If there is a large amount of money partied at a location, then it would send out the signal and this information will be passed to the Income Tax department.

