Pakistan’s Press Information Bureau on Wednesday released a candid readout of a phone conversation that reportedly took place between President-elect Donald Trump and Pakistani Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif.

Typically, readouts are mundane summaries of what was discussed between world leaders. What was striking about Wednesday’s readout, however, was Mr. Trump’s extravagant praise of Pakistan, its people, and culture.

Here’s the text:

“Prime Minister Muhammad Nawaz Sharif called President-elect USA Donald Trump and felicitated him on his victory. President Trump said Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif you have a very good reputation. You are a terrific guy. You are doing amazing work which is visible in every way. I am looking forward to see you soon. As I am talking to you Prime Minister, I feel I am talking to a person I have known for long. Your country is amazing with tremendous opportunities. Pakistanis are one of the most intelligent people. I am ready and willing to play any role that you want me to play to address and find solutions to the outstanding problems. It will be an honor and I will personally do it. Feel free to call me any time even before 20th January that is before I assume my office. On being invited to visit Pakistan by the Prime Minister, Mr. Trump said that he would love to come to a fantastic country, fantastic place of fantastic people. Please convey to the Pakistani people that they are amazing and all Pakistanis I have known are exceptional people, said Mr. Donald Trump.”

The characterization of the conversation seems consistent with Mr. Trump’s style of rhetoric, though the Trump transition team did not initially offer a similar readout. Late Wednesday evening, the transition team released its more staid version, below:

“President-elect Trump and the Prime Minister of Pakistan Muhammad Nawaz Sharif spoke today and had a productive conversation about how the United States and Pakistan will have a strong working relationship in the future. President-elect Trump also noted that he is looking forward to a lasting and strong personal relationship with Prime Minister Sharif.”

During his campaign, the president-elect proposed a Muslim entry ban at one point, which he later modified into a proposal calling for the extreme vetting of Muslims. He has also criticized President Obama and Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton for not using the phrase “radical Islamic terrorism” (Clinton has used it, though not as frequently as Mr. Trump has).

Pakistan is, according to the CIA, a country of 200 million people, 96 percent of whom are Muslim.

And in 2012, Mr. Trump’s tweets about Pakistan specifically had a different tone entirely.

“Get it straight: Pakistan is not our friend,” he tweeted. “We’ve given them billions and billions of dollars, and what did we get? Betrayal and disrespect — and much worse. #TimeToGetTough”

CBS News’ Steve Chaggaris and Donald Judd contributed to this report.