People who can explain how they earned the money and show that taxes were paid can keep it. So not only is the property purchased with black money, but the sellers pay less tax than they should because the prices have been understated. If the public continues to hold most of its savings in the new notes, India may well find itself dealing with the same problem. withdrawals to 2,000 rupees, or about $30, at a time. In a heavily regulated economy, businessmen frequently bribe government officials into giving them licenses and other approvals. Currency notes of Rs 1000 and Rs 500 will be just paper with no value7. ATMs will not work on November 9, and at some places on November 10 as well4. ATMs will not work on November 9, and at some places on November 10 as well4. "Banks will be closed tomorrow. On the other hand, honest people are suffering," he said.He linked fake currency to terrorism and questioned how enemies of the countries are using such methods to harm India. Some medical facilities will be exempted from this for the time being12. Five hundred and thousand rupee notes will not be legal tender from midnight. For 72 hours, till midnight on 11th November, railway ticket booking counters, ticket counters of government buses and airline ticket counters at airports will accept the old notes for purchase of tickets. Whereas, the newest RBI data exercise arrives very close to being definitive on fake exports at least. But if you do in 100 denomination, youll need 1000 notes. 14. Pharmacies in government hospitals will also accept these notes for buying medicines with doctors' prescription. 7. 2. 4.Corruption will decrease. Quite rightly people want to know why more cash wasn't printed in advance; the new notes, obviously, but also the 100 rupee notes, which suddenly became the lifeblood of the economy. There is likely to be one condition attached: that it be paid into a bank account, thereby adding momentum to the effort to draw Indians into the formal economy. There is a big caveat here. It is also the start of the marriage season, and across India heart-broken brides and grooms have seen their elaborate wedding plans beached as the cash dried up.