Besides this, the launch will be housed by TeamIndus. Besides this, the launch will be housed by TeamIndus. Stay tuned with us for more updates and news feeds like this. TeamIndus had a very high profile teamwork and many great investors like Sachin and Binny Bansal, Ratan Tata, Nandan Nilekani co-founder of Flipkart and co-founder of Infosys Ltd. Before this Chandrayaan 1 was the first achievement and the first Indian space mission which circled the moon. It supports the private aerospace companies to launch spacecraft and space missions. The Indus Team won the Google prize but had no experience in Space launches. The Indus team took it as a challenge and redesigned their propulsion system and this time Adimurthy gave his approval, and now it is only a matter of execution. The Indus team took it as a challenge and redesigned their propulsion system and this time Adimurthy gave his approval, and now it is only a matter of execution. Adi ruled that though the propulsion system was good for ISRO but far too heavy for the small satellites of Team Indus. The mission will lay the path for the bigger Chandrayaan-2 mission. The Moon is not only our nearest planetary neighbor, but it is also the gateway to the rest of the universe, Googles website describing the Lunar XPRIZE states. The mission will lay the path for the bigger Chandrayaan-2 mission. So far, the team has raised $15 million and they aim to raise remaining funds by September-October next year. In addition, Google has also announced an additional $5 million prize for the mission that makes further scientific discoveries after exploring the site. Team Indus is the only Indian team in this Google-sponsored global effort. As part of the Google Lunar X Prize competition which after an extension of two deadlines is likely to end by 2017 before which all the competing teams which number about three dozen have to kick off their moon shot. Since 2010, Narayan has collected a bunch youngsters mostly students fresh out of college who have made it their single minded desire to become the first private Indian company to reach the moon. But the number of teams that actually have a launch contract are very few.