Besides this, the launch will be housed by TeamIndus. The formal launch date is not yet to be announced. Besides this, the launch requires contender to get launched before 28th December 2017. It supports the private aerospace companies to launch spacecraft and space missions. Now the Indian Aerospace is going to get a great achievement with the launch of private moon mission next year. Now the organisation is going to launch another spacecraft, Chandrayaan 2 in 2017. On Thursday, TeamIndus had launched a formal launch date on Thursday and become a first organisation to take such step. The Indus Team won the Google prize but had no experience in Space launches. One such retired ISRO scientist is V Adimurthy who came to the Team Indus office. After a review, Adimurthy was not sure about the propulsion systems which were similar to those used by ISRO for its Mars and Moon missions. Adi ruled that though the propulsion system was good for ISRO but far too heavy for the small satellites of Team Indus. The Team Indus effort may seem audacious, but it has everything which is synonymous with India. The mission will lay the path for the bigger Chandrayaan-2 mission. It will be ISROs second mission to the moon after the success of Chandrayaan-1 mission in 2008. India will witness first ever private mission to Moon. While taking of the private moon mission, every part of the mission is being completed by the TeamIndus except the launching which is being assisted by ISRO. As per the estimates, the mission will cost around $60 million. The US space agency NASA started sending astronauts to the moon with Apollo missions starting in 1969. Team Indus is the only Indian team in this Google-sponsored global effort. Rahul Narayan says ISRO and Team Indus are not competitors in the unfolding Indian moon race. ISRO has the wisdom and heritage and Team Indus the young nervous energy and a spirit to burn out and die fighting. A massive dash to reach the moon between a David being played by Team Indus and the big Goliath, the Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO). Team Indus is a group of youngsters who are hedging their bets on winning the $20 million Google Lunar X Prize.