Recently, concerned that US investment in Pakistan may be hit, Islamabad raised the issue of the 'travel warning' advisory against it with Washington, a US State Department spokesman said yesterday. "Please convey to the Pakistani people that they are amazing and all Pakistanis I have known are exceptional people", said Trump according to the Pakistan government press release.In May this year, the US House of Representatives voted 277 to increase restrictions on military aid for Pakistan. As I am talking to you Prime Minister, I feel I am talking to a person I have known for long. President Trump said Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif you have a very good reputation. Please convey to the Pakistani people that they are amazing and all Pakistanis I have known are exceptional people, said Mr. Donald Trump. On being invited to visit Pakistan by the Prime Minister, Mr. Trump said that he would love to come to a fantastic country, fantastic place of fantastic people. The full readout of the call, according to the Pakistani government, is below. You are doing amazing work which is visible in every way, Trump said on the call, according to a readout provided by the Pakistani government. Please convey to the Pakistani people that they are amazing and all Pakistanis I have known are exceptional people, Trump said. President-elect Donald Trump showered Pakistani Prime Minister Muhammad Nawaz Sharif with praise during a phone call on Wednesday, providing a glimpse into his diplomatic strategy. As I am talking to you Prime Minister, I feel I am talking to a person I have known for long. It will be an honor and I will personally do it. President Trump said Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif you have a very good reputation. Please convey to the Pakistani people that they are amazing and all Pakistanis I have known are exceptional people, said Mr. Donald Trump. These are the real notes from a real conversation between President-elect Donald Trump and Nawaz Sharif, the Prime Minister of Pakistan. I am looking forward to see you soon.