The specs shoot first-person video clips, or Snaps, that you can transfer directly to the Snapchat app. Photo by Spectacles.com

The specs can record up to 10 seconds of video from the wearer's perspective. "It's about us figuring out if it fits into people's lives and seeing how they like it. That's a lot of young consumers that could sport new specs. That's one of the reasons -- along with live-streaming products like Twitter's Periscope -- behind Facebook's strong move into video with its Facebook Live feature. It also posted a statement on the new site Snap.com. Mixed-reality video calls? Or just fun videos from your friends? Whether or not these Spectacles popularize circular footage the way Snapchat did for vertical video, its an audacious new project for Spiegel and Snapchat, which he has renamed Snap Inc.  a camera company. Spiegel has long referred to Snapchat as a camera business, but it has always been an app riding on whatever smartphone you used. Spectacles look like a funny, laid-back play on designer sunglasses. "It's one thing to see images of an experience you had, but it's another thing to have an experience of the experience. But because they are sunglasses, they will be less conspicuous than Google's. But just as Google did, Snap is marketing Spectacles with a high-fashion gloss. It was the closest I'd ever come to feeling like I was there again. The cameras employ a 115-degree lens, which the company says more closely approximates a person's field of vision. Snapchat's first hardware product is coming to the market sooner than anyone expected. Snap Inc., the parent company behind Snapchat, has finally revealed how and where it will sell its new Spectacles to the public: through vending machines called Snapbots. Buyers will be able to virtually try on a pair of Spectacles by pressing one of the buttons on the machine, each of which represents a different color option for the glasses. )

The announcement comes after Snap Inc. first unveiled its camera-equipped glasses in September, which are capable of recording footage and wirelessly transmitting it to the Snapchat app on a users phone.